---
layout: blogpost
title: How to run a successful Kickstarter
subhead: Stuff I've learned from running and backing several successful Kickstarter projects
---

# How To Run A Successful Kickstarter Campaign

(Kickstarter)[http://www.kickstarter.com/] is all the rage these days, and everyone wants a piece of the pie. Even your Grandma has a Kickstarter. She does, doesn't she?

But while setting up and launching your project on Kickstarter is easy-peasy, no one is promising your project will reach it's funding goals - which in Kickstarter land means you get no money at all.

Some people say just use (IndieGoGo)[http://www.indiegogo.com/] or (one of the other Kickstarter alternatives)[http://mashable.com/2012/12/06/kickstarter-alternatives/] where you keep whatever you raise, regardless of whether you reached your goal. For several reasons, I think Kickstarter is still the funding platform of choice, not the least of which is it's audience size which as of this writing has grown to over 3 million people.

Regardless of what funding platform you choose, there are several things you can do to help your chances of reaching your full funding. In my experience running two successful Kickstarter campaigns in the last year, I've learned a few things that I would call clutch for making the most of your project. Here they are in semi-order of importance:

*NOTE: while most of these tips apply across the board, some of them are unique to certain campaigns, like mine. Take what works, ditch what doesn't apply.*

*Also, the thoughts I'm sharing here are directly related to my experience with Kickstarter projects. Many of the things I've shared will apply to other crowd funding platforms, and some of them won't. I honestly can't speak to other platforms because I don't really have any experience with them.*

1. Have a compelling video for your project.

2. Ask people in your Twittersphere to promote your campaign.

3. Use plenty of images in your project description.

4. Provide plenty of reward levels. People love to shop with options.

5. Keep your backers engaged. Don't be annoying, but post plenty of updates.

6. Add project FAQs. Everytime someone PMs you a question, respond to it, and then immediately post it to your FAQs section, along with any other related questions is makes you think of.

7. Explain what you are going to do with the money. Be honest, transparent, and explain what you will do if you can raise more than your goal.

8. When possible, offer tangible rewards. Even if your project is not for something your backers tangibly get, come up with= some tangible reward you can give them. It helps create a sense of sentimentality with your audience.

9. Have stretch goals.

10. Properly account for the cost of your project (aka, Kickstarter fees, Amazon fees, etc). Let your audience know that you won't get all of the money raised, so they can properly understand what the project costs you. etc.

11. Have a compelling idea. Come up with a project that people will want to back. Sounds obvious, but it's really one of the most critical parts. Appeal to people's desire to help, desire to have, or desire to be a part of something, and they'll give you their money every time. It might even sound sleazy, but it's just the way we spend our money as humans. You may think your project is awesome, but check around and see if others you talk to about your idea get excited too. If not, you may want to reconsider whether people who don't even know you are going to want to back it.

12. Don't violate the Kickstarter (or other funding platform) rules. One of the quickest ways to ensure your project won't succeed is to violate the funding platform terms.

------
Responses I already wrote to people about this topic:
------

Hi Richard,

Wonderful project you are undertaking.

I've had a lot of folks message me with this same question. It's a tough one to answer, because so many of the variables are unique. For me a lot had to do with:

1) The fact that I'm aiming at a very specific demographic (programmers)

2) The fact that I've done similar stuff in the past (other t-shirts, and even another kickstarter)

3) My community of people on Twitter that I actively engage with regularly

I never had either of the other two things you mentioned (bloggers or mainstream press) and my project was successful mostly due to the three things above. Twitter especially went a long way for me.

Looks like you are making great progress though, and hopefully you'll blow past your goal by the time the project is over!

Keep pressing on. I'll be sure to tweet the project and hopefully a few extra people will see it. :-)

Kindly,
Joel

-----------------

Hi Michael,

Here's a few responses to your questions:

1) Business license - depends on your location. Where I'm at, in Pennsylvania, to do a project like this requires no special licensing. But you should always check with someone where you are who can give you sound legal advice on this one.

2) Copyright - in the US creative works are protected by US Copyright Law the moment they are conceived & created, so you are afforded some level of common law protection as soon as you create something. However, to have more legal protection that would stand up in a court of law, you should look into registering your work with the US Copyright Office http://www.copyright.gov/

3) You Goal - this is not something I can answer for you. It depends on a lot of factors that you will need to determine for yourself, like what your project is going to cost to produce, how much profit you want to make, etc. The most important question to ask yourself is, "How much do I need to raise to pull this project off?" And that will tell you what your goal should be.

4) Finding a printing company - I can recommend two options that I have worked with in the past and been happy with: Jakprints (http://www.jakprints.com/) and Clockwise Tees (http://clockwisetees.com/)

5) Inventory - this is totally up to you.

Good luck,
Joel


---------

Hi Thinkware team,

I have received this question many times now, so I'm working on a blog post to answer it.

But some basic tips I've found to be helpful are:

1) Promote to your social media audience, if you have a very engaged audience. This has been one of the biggest factors in the success of my projects.

2) Target a niche audience who is passionate about your subject matter, and doesn't appear to already be served in this space.

3) Have a great product. Nobody wants to back a mediocre product or something they feel that just anyone could come up with, or that could be sold in any old store. For people to want to back it, they need to feel like it's the coolest thing they've seen online all day.

Hope that helps.

Good luck,
Joel

------

Hi Anthony,

Thanks for the good words.

I've had a lot of people ask me the same question, and in the spirit of efficiency I'm working on a blog post about what I've found to be the most helpful tips to success with my two projects.

However since I'm still working on it, here's a few of the things I've found to be most important:

1) have a compelling video, explaining what you're trying to do, why, and what it will take to get things done - as well as why people should back your project. (watched yours, you seem to have this covered)

2) have a compelling product that hits a specific demographic. (again, looks like you're doing that part too)

3) utilize your social network. For me, the majority of my backers from both this project and the one I did last year came from my Twitter network. I don't know how involved you are on social media, but if you're not that is a big part. If you are, then engage your existing audience.

A few specific notes for your project:

1) I see that you are doing a jewelry project. On the plus side, you have clearly done all the leg work to bring your product to market. That shows that you are capable of making this happen, which is important for backers to see. On the downside, however, is that if you have a completely finished product that you are offering, many backers may wonder why they should even back it. That can come across to some people like you don't actually need Kickstarter backer's support, you just need buyers.

2) Your target market is clearly the Christian community. The tough part about Kickstarter is that it seems to most appeal to the technology community (hence why I launched a shirt line geared toward developers). If you look at the most successful projects on Kickstarter, 90% of them appeal strongly to the tech community. I think it's par for the course around here that you'll have to work a lot harder to find your audience within the Kickstarter audience.

I don't know if I've given you any actionable tips, but I hope that maybe some of this will trigger some insights for how to get your project further along.

Blessings,
Joel

-------

Hi Clarisse,

Thanks for the good words.

My best advice on maximizing exposure is to work your network. For me, it all came down to Twitter friends sharing. But wherever your network is, you have to work it. Ask them to share your project if they can't back it (and even if they can STILL ask them to share it).

And also be sure to consistently represent your message across all channels. In other words, if you have a website - put up a big message pointing people to go to the kickstarter. If you have a blog, put up a persistent banner at the top with a link to the Kickstarter. You have to amplify your message across all channels.

Anyway that's all I got. Hope it's helpful. Feel free to ask any other specific questions if you have some.

Good luck!
Joel

BTW very cool project!

-----

Answers:

1) Depends what your goals/strategy is. Since the goal of a Kickstarter is to raise initial funds for your project, people don't necessarily expect you to have everything up and running before you launch your project. In fact, kind of the opposite. If people see you have everything you need and are all ready to go, they might wonder why you need to raise money for your project in the first place.

That being said, it does help to have at least a landing page on your site, etc ready to validate who you are and what you are doing. For example, if you go to the Dev Tees website (http://devte.es) you'll see there's just a placeholder pointing people back at the Kickstarter campaign.

So it's at least good to have some consistency among your assets, showing that what you are doing is legit, and focusing people back around to wherever you want them to engage with you (which during the Kickstarter is your Kickstarter campaign).

2) That's a really hard question to answer. It really depends on your own scenario. I've seen really low projects still not get funded, and really high ones blow it out of the water. So it's really circumstantial.

What I can say is that you don't want to set the bar so low that if you meet your goal but don't exceed it by much that you're going to be worse off than if you had not run the campaign at all. Meaning, you need to accurately assess the cost of your project, and set the goal no less than what you actually need to succeed, but probably not too much higher.

3) Twitter has been my best resource. I am fairly active on Twitter, so for both of my campaigns I tweeted out to people I know asking them to share it, and that has been really the majority of where my traffic has come from. That is really appropriate so my demographic, however, so I'm not saying that it's the only way, or the best way to do it. Just for me, that's been very successful.

Generally speaking you need to invest your marketing effort/resources into where your existing audience is, and get them to engage with your project first. What happens then is they have a vested interest in seeing your project succeed since they are backing it, and will continue to share for you.

Also, Kickstarter has a list of suggestions for getting your project funded that may be helpful. You should look for that - I think it's in the FAQs of the site, or somewhere like that.

Hope this helps.

------

Hey Ed,

So here's my input:

First of all, nicely done video! Love the animations. Clever way to do your video.

However, your video is really short and doesn't actually say much about yourself, or the project. It doesn't really communicate much more than having a Kickstarter project implies by default: that you've made something cool, and you need help getting it funded.

Your video should go into details about:
- Who you are, and why you decided to make the project, so your audience can begin to feel a connection with you that will eventually lead them to want to help back your project
- As much details of your project as you can possibly talk about and show, including: how the game works, what the gameplay is like, similar games that it may be inspired by (so people can have a frame of reference to compare your game to), what work you've done in making the game (did you illustrate it all? did you conceive the game play? etc), how you are going to get things produced and fulfilled, and talk about any challenges you might have that the Kickstarter audience is helping you overcome;

The idea of your project video - and your whole Kickstarter project in general - is that you are approaching business investors. Except instead of people investing big sums of money for ownership in your company, your are inviting people to invest small sums of money to simply pre-order your project and ensure that they actually get to own it someday.

But regardless of the scale of investing you are asking people to do, you should still treat your communication with your audience like proposing to a business investor. You wouldn't give a business investor a short pitch with the minimum amount of info, you would give them as much insight and details as possible into the work you are going, how you are doing it, and what your motivation to do it and succeed even is.

I'd also recommend showing your prototypes in the video, and in photos on the page. If you don't have any prototypes, come up with as many more mocks as you can. People really want to see what they are going to get, and when they scan down through your project that's what they are looking for.

The more you can show to get them excited about what they are going to get in the end, the better. Take for example, this other recent card game project: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/glummies/seven-seas-playing-cards Their video and landing page features plenty of previews of the cards because it's the actual product people are buying. I would suggest you do likewise and add as many actual images of your game and components as possible.

On the plus side, you are running a game project, and from much of what I've seen of gaming projects they seem to be a very successful category of Kickstarter project on average. The gaming community (especially analog gaming) really seems to be into new and niche games.

Hope the feedback helps. Let me know if you have other questions about anything in particular.

Cheers,
Joel

------

Hi Peter and Vasili,

The number one piece of feedback I could give you is the question: who is your demographic? The answer to that question is not immediately apparent when checking out your project, and it really needs to be.

With clothing, people generally buy it because they feel it represents who they are. However, if the line isn't clear who it's really for or who it's representing, it won't really stand out to people.

With my Dev Tees project, it was always immediately clear who the clothes were for: software developers. It's in the name, and in the designs. People immediately connect with it if they are part of the demographic.

So my advice would be take some time to consider what could make your audience immediately connect with your brand. Will your audience immediately connect with the "LeoCorde" brand name? Will they immediately get the connection between who they are and what your designs communicate? If the answer is no, then you should reconsider your overall design. When the answer is yes, people will eat it up.

You seem to be doing a lot of other things well with your campaign, like having a video and showing plenty of mocks of your product. But IMO you could really up the impact of your video by leveling up the production quality.

Also, I think the design work itself could be improved. The impression I get from looking over your project page is you are two young men with a solid fashion sense, and strong business acumen, but graphic design may not be your forte.

My advice would be to find a really talented graphic designer and invite them to partner with you in your project. I'm sure you guys have worked very hard on the designs you have come up with, but I'm not convinced they will reach mass appeal based on the design themselves.

They are very brand-centric, which is something a lot of well established brands can pull off because the brand itself already has a mass audience and people feel confident just repping the brand. But with a new brand like yours (or even mine), people aren't necessarily going to be just sold on the brand itself because it's not known. You need a hook, like some sweet graphic theme (in my case it was designs geared toward programmers; you'll notice none of my t-shirt designs even featured the Dev Tees brand name).

Finally, one of the best tips for success I can give you is to build an audience before you launch your campaign, or find one that your campaign will resonate with. In my case, the audience was an already established group (software developers) that I was able to connect with. Which all points back to my original question for you: "who is your demographic." 

Once you can nail down the answer to that question, you'll be able to really focus your design, your communication strategy, and your overall approach with a laser-focus toward reaching that demographic.

And in my experience, reaching a specific group on Kickstarter is the key to a successful campaign.

Good luck,
Joel

(via https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1858443458/1282303550?token=788436e1)

------

additional tips:

- avoid things where you exclude a gender
- be aware of the headaches of international shipping
- include shipping in the reward level (don't ask backers to add on shipping to their pledge, cause most people won't and then you have to sort that out)
